[Doc] Add guides for AMQP1_0 connector (#142)
streamnative/pulsar-hub: connectors/amqp-1-0-sink/2.7.1.1/amqp-1-0-sink.md

---
description: The AMQP1_0 sink connector pulls messages from Pulsar topics and persists messages to AMQP brokers.
author: ["StreamNative"]
contributors: ["StreamNative"]
language: Java
document: 

> source: "https://github.com/streamnative/pulsar-io-amqp-1-0/tree/branch-2.7.1/src/main/java/org/apache/pulsar/ecosystem/io/random"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
source: "https://github.com/streamnative/pulsar-io-amqp-1-0/tree/branch-2.7.1/io-amqp1_0-impl/src/main/java/org/apache/pulsar/ecosystem/io/amqp"
```

        After the connector is successfully built, a `NAR` package is generated under the `target` directory.

        ```bash
        ls pulsar-io-amqp1_0/target
        pulsar-io-amqp1_0-{version}.nar
        ```

# How to configure 

Before using the AMQP1_0 sink connector, you need to configure it.

You can create a configuration file (JSON or YAML) to set the following properties.

| Name | Type|Required | Default | Description 
|------|----------|----------|---------|-------------|
| `protocol` |String| true | "amqp" | The AMQP protocol. |
| `host` | String| true | " " (empty string) | The AMQP service host. |
| `port` | int |true | 5672 | The AMQP service port. |
| `username` | String|false | " " (empty string) | The username used to authenticate to ActiveMQ. |
| `password` | String|false | " " (empty string) | The password used to authenticate to ActiveMQ. |
| `queue` | String|false | " " (empty string) | The queue name that messages should be read from or written to. |
| `topic` | String|false | " " (empty string) | The topic name that messages should be read from or written to. |
| `activeMessageType` | String|false |0 | The ActiveMQ message simple class name. |

> | `onlyTextMessage` | boolean | false | false | If set to `true`, it requires that the AMQP message type is `TextMessage`. Pulsar consumer can consume the messages with schema ByteBuffer. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `onlyTextMessage` | boolean | false | false | If it is set to `true`, the AMQP message type must be set to `TextMessage`. The Pulsar consumer can consume the messages with schema ByteBuffer. |
```

            "queue": "user-op-queue-pulsar"
        }
    }
    ```

* YAML

    ```yaml
    tenant: "public"
    namespace: "default"
    name: "amqp1_0-sink"
    inputs: 
      - "user-op-queue-topic"
    archive: "connectors/pulsar-io-amqp1_0-{version}.nar"
    parallelism: 1
    
    configs:
        protocol: "amqp"
        host: "localhost"
        port: "5672"
        username: "guest"
        password: "guest"
        queue: "user-op-queue-pulsar"
    ```

# How to use

You can use the AMQP1_0 sink connector as a non built-in connector or a built-in connector as below. 

## Use as non built-in connector 

If you already have a Pulsar cluster, you can use the AMQP1_0 sink connector as a non built-in connector directly.

This example shows how to create an AMQP1_0 sink connector on a Pulsar cluster using the command [`pulsar-admin sinks create`](http://pulsar.apache.org/tools/pulsar-admin/2.8.0-SNAPSHOT/#-em-create-em--24).

```
PULSAR_HOME/bin/pulsar-admin sinks create \
--name amqp1_0-sink \
--archive pulsar-io-amqp1_0-{version}.nar \
--classname org.apache.pulsar.ecosystem.io.amqp.AmqpSink \
--sink-config-file amqp-sink-config.yaml
```

## Use as built-in connector

> You can make the AMQP1_0 sink connector as a built-in connector and use it on standalone cluster, on-premises cluster, or K8S cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can make the AMQP1_0 sink connector as a built-in connector and use it on the standalone cluster, on-premises cluster, or K8S cluster.
```

Author: here we talk about things in general, so do not use articles

          "latestSinkExceptions" : [ ],
          "numWrittenToSink" : 10,
          "lastReceivedTime" : 1615192471713,
          "workerId" : "c-standalone-fw-localhost-8080"
        }
      } ]
    }
    ```

### On-premises cluster

This example explains how to create an AMQP1_0 sink connector in an on-premises cluster.

1. Copy the NAR package of the AMQP1_0 connector to the Pulsar connectors directory.

    ```
    cp pulsar-io-amqp1_0-{version}.nar $PULSAR_HOME/connectors/pulsar-io-amqp1_0-{version}.nar
    ```

2. Reload all [built-in connectors](https://pulsar.apache.org/docs/en/next/io-connectors/).

    ```
    PULSAR_HOME/bin/pulsar-admin sinks reload
    ```

3. Check whether the AMQP1_0 sink connector is available on the list or not.

    ```
    PULSAR_HOME/bin/pulsar-admin sinks available-sinks
    ```

4. Create an AMQP1_0 sink connector on a Pulsar cluster using the [`pulsar-admin sinks create`](http://pulsar.apache.org/tools/pulsar-admin/2.8.0-SNAPSHOT/#-em-create-em--24) command.

    ```
    PULSAR_HOME/bin/pulsar-admin sinks create \
    --sink-type amqp1_0 \
    --sink-config-file amqp-sink-config.yaml \
    --name amqp1_0-sink
    ```

### K8S cluster

> This example demonstrates how to create an AMQP1_0 sink connector on a K8S cluster.

Reviewer 2: in a cluster or on a cluster? Please keep consistent throughout the doc.
